[Music]
this salmon pokey bowl is my take on
this hip Hawaiian dish it's delicious
nutritious and best of all super fast
and easy to make
every good pokeball starts off with rice
you could use any rice that you want but
I like sushi rice because it's a short
grain and it's really sticky if you're
really short of time just heat up some
microwave packet stuff easy-peasy but
cooking rice from scratch is in my DNA
my granddad was a rice farmer and if we
didn't know how to cook rice by the age
of about seven you ostracized but don't
worry I have a foolproof method that'll
ensure you'll never end up wasting your
time find yourself a wooden spoon and
stick a line on it about a centimeter
and a half and as soon as you kind of
have enough water up to that line that's
about right when you get it right every
single time you can almost pat yourself
on the back and say I did that again
give it a stir and simmer until the rice
absorbs all the water I've got three
little kids we live on salmon this is
the kind of stuff that we have in the
house all the time this is uber fresh
farmed Scottish salmon so I'm not even
going to cook it because we're eating
this raw I like to have small chunks
otherwise it just feels like you're
eating more fish is that weird you can
see that there's no water left leave
that to steam for about 10 minutes and
then that gives me loads of time to
crack on with the rest of the dish next
my simple dressing I'm gonna make this
dressing out of stuff that I have in the
cupboard all the time so we'll start off
with some mayonnaise I'm gonna add
sriracha this chili sauce will give it a
spicy boost some soy sauce it smells so
good bit of sesame oil not too much
that's quite strong fish sauce so fishy
lemon juice and then give that a little
mix and just to finish it off just a
little bit of black pepper I say a
little bit of black pepper I like a lot
of black pepper if you're gonna dress
your salmon dress it well even when
you're flagging this is so easy to put
together and bonus you get to use up all
those nagging little leftovers knocking
around in your fridge I've always got
spring onion I'm not even gonna bother
getting a knife out I'm just going to
just use my scissors
my number one hack for making quick work
of chopping I've always got this odd
Cara it's not enough to make a carrot
cake not enough to do anything else with
so this is perfect for something like
this as a simple shortcut to the
authentic flavor of sushi I'm just going
to roll up these sheets of dried seaweed
and give them a snip now I'm going to
just check on the rice and you can see
look at that
that's what sushi rice is all about and
that's what makes great sushi is because
the rice all sticks together season it
with some salt sugar and then some
vinegar it smells so good this is it I'm
ready to put my bowl together and all in
about 15 minutes your rice is almost
like the canvas no matter how tired you
are take time to create something
beautiful
I always have pickled red cabbage look
at that color
what's not to like this recipe isn't
about cooking it's about piling on your
favorite ingredients and making it
special or there's something about that
creamy goodness they get from peanuts or
I love it some sesame seeds just a bit
of black pepper because I think salmon
likes black pepper food shouldn't look
like art but when it does you kind of
almost don't want to eat it but I'm
gonna eat it
[Music]
my salmon poke a bone a tasty streamline
supper that will lift your spirits as
well as Bank you precious time
[Music]
no two mouthfuls of the same may taste
different every single time after a long
day at work sometimes dinner is the last
thing on your mind but in 15 minutes
I've just cooked up some rice and put
some stuff together and we've got this
beautiful beautiful dish that tastes
out-of-this-world now if you don't mind
could you leave me with my bowl
[Music]